# Cube-analysis-project

**GOOD TO KNOW but may not be necessary!** <br />
This project relates heavily to a card game called Magic the Gathering (MTG). The project uses a lot of knowledge about MTG but some of it is relatively easy to understand – at least when some kind of games or cards are familiar to the reader such as Pokémon cards. The other concept(s) needed to know is Cube or draft. They are many ways to play MTG. The relevant information in the beginning is that players make decks for playing. The decks can only contain cards that are included to a list. <br />
The lists of cards and decks I used for this project are in this website: https://cubecobra.com/cube/overview/zjdf. “List” tab contains the list of cards players are available to use and “Playtest” tab contains decks players have made. This project handles only decks that have been made in live events not online. The live event decks have been added manually so most of the decks having “by Squeeknik” in their name have been made in live events. The list of cards may change time to time so not all cards are in it anymore. If needed more information about MTG or Cube the reader can search more information from the internet. If there are anything to ask about the project, please contact me.

**DATA AND DATA-ANALYSIS in a nutshell.** <br />
So, what have I done so far? I have collected the data from the website, changed it from text file to csv file, made some needed changes to it and saved all the data to a single csv file. I have also generated some data related to decks and cards for example a colour of a card and winning rate of the card.
Because those live events mentioned above there will be more decks available for time to time. To avoid running the somewhat heavy code all over again I variated the code. Now the new code just adds the new decks, cards and information related to them but not the known information. All data generated from the earlier information will be generated from the new decks and cards as well. <br />
So, now there are some code that need to be ran just once and some code needed to run always when some new decks are wanted to add to the data. I did also a search function that searches win rates. The user can determine some qualities the card should have and then search the win rate. For example, I could search the win rate of red cards. <br />
In the future I would like to continue the project. I have in mind to visualize the data and examine if I could try to use some basic machine learning algorithms. 

**EVALUATION of the project.** <br />
This project offers even now some notable information for the administrator of the cube. But everyone should be careful with their interpretation of this offered information because there are not enough data to get good enough results. These results are just directional and are heavily dependent of the context. The point of this project was offering some notable information for the administrator and develop my coding skills what comes to collecting the data and data-analysis.
